[release-v2.5] [DOC] Draft release notes for 2.5 (#3735)
grafana/tempo: docs/sources/tempo/release-notes/v2-5.md

---
title: Version 2.5 release notes
menuTitle: V2.5
description: Release notes for Grafana Tempo 2.5
weight: 35
---

# Version 2.5 release notes

The Tempo team is pleased to announce the release of Tempo 2.5.

This release gives you:

* New features, including more TraceQL metrics, gRPC streaming endpoints, and new experimental vParquet4 block format
* TraceQL enhancements and performance improvements
* Performance and stability enhancements

As part of this release, we’ve updated ownership for `/var/tempo` from `root:root` to a new `tempo:tempo` user with a UUID of `10001`. Learn about this breaking change in Upgrade considerations.

> Read the [Tempo 2.5 blog post](https://grafana.com/blog/2024/05/28/grafana-tempo-2.5-release-vparquet4-streaming-endpoints-and-more-metrics/) for more examples and details about these improvements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read the [Tempo 2.5 blog post](https://grafana.com/blog/2024/06/03/grafana-tempo-2.5-release-vparquet4-streaming-endpoints-and-more-metrics/) for more examples and details about these improvements.
```

These release notes highlight the most important features and bugfixes. For a complete list, refer to the [Tempo changelog](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/releases).

> {{< youtube id="c4gW9fwkLhc" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- {{< youtube id="c4gW9fwkLhc" >}} --?
```
